1. A 47-year-old male presents with peripheral edema and frothy urine. Laboratory tests reveal proteinuria and hypoalbuminemia. Renal biopsy shows thickening of the glomerular basement membrane with subepithelial deposits. What is the most likely diagnosis for this patient's condition?
a. Minimal change disease
b. Diabetic nephropathy
c. Berger's disease
d. Membranous nephropathy
e. Tubulointerstitial nephritis

answer: Membranous nephropathy

2. A 5-year-old girl presented with frothy urine a few weeks after an upper respiratory tract infection. Light microscopy of the renal biopsy showed little or no relevant pathological findings, and electron microscopy showed effacement of the following processes. Immunofluorescence is likely to show:
a. Strong linear IgM stain on glomerular capillary wall (GCW)
b. Dominant IgA stain in the mesangial area
c. Starry sky pattern of stain
d. Granular IgG stain in the glomerular capillary wall
e. No glomerular immune stain/deposit

answer: No glomerular immune stain/deposit

3. The following renal lesions are associated with interstitial foam cells:
a. Secondary FSGS
b. Alport syndrome
c. Dense deposit disease
d. Fibronectin glomerulopathy
e. Thin basement membrane disease

answer: Alport syndrome

4. A 36-year-old female presented with hemoptysis, hematuria, and proteinuria. Light microscopy of the renal biopsy showed crescentic/necrotizing glomerulonephritis. Immunofluorescence revealed strong linear IgG staining in the GCW. EM:
a. Anti-GBM glomerulonephritis
b. Henoch-Schönlein purpura
c. Goodpasture syndrome
d. Fabry's disease
e. IgA nephropathy

answer:  Goodpasture syndrome


5. Tubuloreticular inclusions are seen in the following renal diseases:
a. Renal Tuberculosis
b. Lupus nephritis
c. IgA nephropathy
d. Amyloidosis
e. Light chain nephropathy

answer: Lupus nephritis

6. Papillary necrosis can be seen in which of the following renal conditions:
a. Benign nephrosclerosis
b. Renal infarct
c. Analgesic nephropathy
d. Malignant nephrosclerosis
e. Thrombotic microangiopathies


answer: Analgesic nephropathy

7.A 35-year-old male factory worker returns home late every day. One of his coping strategies was to be on an analgesic cocktail, mostly mixtures of 2 or 3 and occasionally of a single type. He recently came down with a renal disease with complaints of nocturia, hypertension, and polyuria. What is the limit of the drug dosage to produce a renal disease and over what period:
a. >=2kg over 3 years
b. >= 3kg over 1 year
c. >= 4kg over 4 years
d. >= 10kg over 2 years
e. >= 4kg over 5 years

answer: >=2kg over 3 years

8. Morphology of the Kidney in Analgesic nephropathy:
a. Finely granular shrunken kidneys
b. Intramembranous immune deposit on electron microscopy
c. Dominant IgA and IgG stain on immunofluorescence stain
d. Tubulitis with occasionally interstitial granuloma
e. Interstitial foam cells

answer: Finely granular shrunken kidneys

9. About Fabry's disease:
a. It is an autosomal dominant lysosomal storage disorder
b. It presents typically as nephrotic syndrome
c. Tubulointerstitial inclusion can be seen in EM
d. Zebra bodies on EM are diagnostic
e. All of the above

answer: Zebra bodies on EM are diagnostic

10. About lupus nephritis:
a. Renal biopsy is needed for diagnosis
b. Effacement of foot processes is a common feature
c. Electron dense deposits are only intramembranous
d. Immunofluorescence is strongly positive for only IgM
e. Little or no relevant pathology is a possible feature on light microscopy

answer: Renal biopsy is needed for diagnosis

11. A 40-year-old man presented with anasarca, proteinuria, and lipiduria. Light microscopy showed thickened GCW and mild glomerular hypercellularity. EM revealed subepithelial deposits. Which of the following is true about this case:
a. Minimal change disease is the most likely diagnosis
b. It is a case of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis
c. The features are in keeping with membranous nephropathy
d. The features are those of a typical nephritic syndrome
e. This is a case of light chain nephropathy

answer: Minimal change disease is the most likely diagnosis

12. About Membranoproliferative GN:
a. It is also known as Lipoid nephrosis
b. Morphology may be normal on light microscopy
c. The type II is known as dense deposit disease
d. Only the abnormal complement pathway is associated in type I
e. Typical appearance on IMS is presence of spleen

answer: It is also known as Lipoid nephrosis


13. A 50-year-old male chief executive came down with left flank mass, weight loss, and hematuria. Histology of renal biopsy showed renal cell carcinoma. What is/are the risk factor(s):
a. Heavy metals
b. Alcohol
c. Diabetes mellitus
d. Hyperlipidemia
e. None of the above

answer: Heavy metals

14. Morphological variants of renal cell carcinoma include:
a. Papillary cell
b. Transitional cell
c. Ducted cell
d. Heart cell
e. Follicular cell

answer: Papillary cell

15. Presence of interstitial foam cells with nephrotic range proteinuria is suggestive of:
a. Minimal change disease
b. Thin basement membrane disease
c. Secondary FSGS
d. Alport syndrome
e. Goodpasture syndrome

answer: Minimal change disease

16. Which of these is characteristic of cardiac angina?
a. Bradycardia
b. Chest pain at rest
c. Severe crushing chest pain lasting
d. Chest pain during exercise
e. ST segment elevation

answer: Chest pain during exercise

17. Which of these is not a cause of a syndrome?
a. Atrial septal defect
b. Ventricular septal defect
c. Patent ductus arteriosus
d. Atrioventricular septal defect
e. Transposition of the great arteries 


18. Which of these is not a cause of a syndrome?
a. Atrial septal defect
b. Ventricular septal defect
c. Patent ductus arteriosus
d. Atrioventricular septal defect
e. Transposition of the great arteries


19. Which of these is not a consequence of atherosclerotic plaques?
a. Ischaemic heart disease
b. Cerebrovascular disease
c. Peripheral vascular disease - intermittent claudication resulting in gangrene of leg
d. Loeffler endomyocarditis
e. Bowel ischaemia

20. Which of these is not a feature of rheumatic fever?
a. Migratory polyarthritis
b. Roth spots
c. Myocarditis
d. Subcutaneous nodules
e. Sydenham chorea

21. Which of these is not a complication of infective endocarditis?
a. Janeway lesions
b. Glomerulonephritis
c. Osler nodes
d. Erythema marginatum
e. Arthritis 

22. Which of these is not a major cause of left-sided heart failure?
a. Systemic hypertension
b. Mitral stenosis
c. Ischaemic heart disease
d. Restrictive pericardium

23. Which of the following is a characteristic feature of hyaline arteriolosclerosis?
a. Occurs mostly in young patients
b. Concentric laminated (Onion skin) arteriolar thickening
c. Diffuse homogeneous pink hyaline thickening of the walls of arterioles
d. Necrotizing arteriolitis
e. Monckeberg media sclerosis

24. A 25-year-old man suddenly slumped and died while playing football. At autopsy, the heart is heavy, thick-walled, and weighed 1000g with reduction of the heart chambers, especially those of the left ventricles. There was sub-aortic stenosis due to bulging of the hypertrophied interventricular septum. He was diagnosed as a case of:
a. Arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy
b. Dilated cardiomyopathy
c. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
d. Restrictive cardiomyopathy
e. Hypertension

25. A 10-year-old boy from Uganda was brought to the autopsy room. There was a history of excessive consumption of banana and plantain. He had an egg on stick appearance with massive ascites. Dissection of the heart revealed marked fibrosis of the endocardium and inner 1/3rd of the myocardium. Histology of the myocardium showed numerous schistosoma ova. A diagnosis of _____ was made.
a. Endomyocardial fibrosis
b. Rheumatic heart disease
c. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
d. Subendocardial myocardial infarction
e. Hypertension

26. Autopsy was done on a 25-year-old man who had a history of malaise and fever. Physical examination revealed needle tracks in his left antecubital fossa. Splinter hemorrhages were noted on the fingernails. The heart showed large friable vegetation on the mitral valve. He also had a renal abscess. Which of the following is the most likely finding in the peripheral blood?
a. Increased Creatine kinase-MB level
b. Positive Blood culture for staphylococcus aureus
c. Elevated serum urea
d. Elevated focal serum cholesterol
e. Elevated Antinuclear antibody titer

27. A 45-year-old woman was brought to the mortuary. She had a clinical history of worsening shortness of breath for 3 years. A month before she died, she had a stroke with resulting inability to move her right upper and lower limbs. Autopsy revealed cardiomegaly of 520g with Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Which of the following conditions is most likely to account for her findings?
a. Hypertension
b. Cardiomyopathy
c. Mitral valve stenosis
d. Aortic coarctation
e. Patent foramen ovale

28. A 65-year-old man was hospitalized on account of severe chest pain. On the first day of admission, his cardiac troponin was elevated, and angiography showed 85% stenosis of the anterior interventricular (left anterior descending) artery. Four days later, he suddenly became worse, with marked hypotension and died. At autopsy, which of the following microscopy findings is most likely to be present in his left ventricular myocardium?
a. Extensive transmural collagen deposition
b. Lymphocytic infiltrates
c. Coronary arterial dissection
d. Necrosis with neutrophils and macrophages
e. Thickening of Papillary muscle with shortness of chordae tendinae


29. Which of these congenital heart diseases is not a Right to Left shunt?
a. Tricuspid atresia
b. Transposition of the great arteries
c. Tetralogy of Fallot
d. Truncus Arteriosus
e. Ventricular Septal defect 

30. Compensatory mechanisms in congestive heart failure may result in:
a. Decreased force of contraction
b. Induction of early and intermediate genes
c. Decreased blood volume
d. Decreased myocyte intercapillary distance
e. Cardiac hypertrophy

31. The length of the esophagus in an adult is:
a. 15 cm
b. 10 cm
c. 25 cm
d. 20 cm
e. 30 cm

32. The esophagus passes through:
a. Posterior mediastinum
b. Superior mediastinum
c. Middle mediastinum
d. Lateral mediastinum
e. Anterior mediastinum

33. Failure of relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter is called:
a. Esophageal web
b. Esophageal ring
c. Achalasia
d. Esophageal varices
e. Esophageal hyperplasia

34. In Mallory-Weiss syndrome, the site of laceration/tear is:
a. Mid-portion of the esophagus
b. Proximal portion of the esophagus
c. Gastroesophageal junction
d. Body of the stomach
e. At the level of the C3 vertebra

35. Which of the following is not a feature of Barrett's esophagus?
a. Adenocarcinoma may develop from it
b. It's a feature of prolonged gastroesophageal reflux
c. Distal columnar epithelium is replaced by squamous epithelium
d. Presents with frequent epigastric pain
e. Difficulty in swallowing

36. The most common benign tumor of the esophagus is:
a. Lipoma
b. Leiomyoma
c. Lipoma
d. Fibroma
e. Adenoma


37. The commonest pattern of presentation of squamous carcinoma of the esophagus is:
a. Infiltration giving a leather bottle appearance
b. Protruding pattern
c. Annular pattern
d. Excavated or ulcerative pattern
e. Multifocal polypoid pattern

38. Which of the following is not a feature of congenital pyloric stenosis?
a. Firm oval palpable mass
b. Visible peristalsis
c. Male preponderance
d. Hypertrophy of parietal cells around the pylorus
e. There is gastric outlet obstruction

39. One of the following lesions is not associated with Helicobacter pylori:
a. Duodenal ulcer
b. Chronic gastritis
c. Cushing's ulcer
d. Peptic ulcer
e. Mucosa-associated lymphoma

40. Autoimmune gastritis usually affects which part?
a. Antrum
b. Corpus
c. Pylorus
d. Duodenal area
e. None of the above

41. Heart failure cells are:
a. Degenerated cells in myocardial infarction
b. Enlarged myocardial myocytes in congestive cardiac failure
c. Hemosiderin-laden macrophages in chronic pulmonary congestion
d. Neutrophils that infiltrate the heart in congestive cardiac failure
e. Plasma cells that accumulate in the interstitial space

42. Acute cor pulmonale can occur as a result of:
a. Pulmonary hypertension
b. Mitral valve stenosis
c. Tricuspid valve stenosis
d. Pulmonary embolism
e. Left heart failure

43.A saddle embolus is:
a. An embolus that occurs among horse riders
b. An embolus in the upper lobe of the lungs
c. An embolus at the bifurcation of the common carotid arteries
d. An embolus occurring at the bifurcation of the common iliac vessels
e. An embolus that occurs at the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery

44. Pulmonary surfactant is secreted by:
a. Type I pneumocytes
b. Type II pneumocytes
c. Type III pneumocytes
d. Alveolar macrophages
e. Endothelial cells

45. Neurons react to injury through the following means:
a. Red neurons
b. Accumulation of Rosenthal fibers
c. Corpora amylacea deposit
d. Gliosis

46. Morphology of cerebral edema:
a. Shrunken brain
b. Flattened gyri
c. Widened sulci
d. Dilated ventricular cavities

47. Which of the following statements is true?
a. Oligodendrocytes are microglia
b. Astrocytes are responsible for tissue repair in the CNS
c. The ventricular surfaces are lined by astrocytes
d. Neuron-specific Enolase is a marker for glial cells

48. Which of these is not a form of brain herniation?
a. Subfalcine
b. Transtentorial
c. Cingulate
d. None of the above 

49. Brain anomalies include:
a. The Arnold-Chiari malformations
b. The Dandy-Walker malformations
c. Spina bifida
d. Polymicrogyria

50. About hemorrhages in the CNS:
a. Epidural hematoma is due to rupture of bridging veins
b. Subdural hematoma is often due to rupture of the middle meningeal artery
c. Subdural hematoma is often due to rupture of bridging veins
d. Subdural hematoma is uncommon in the elderly

51. More about hemorrhage in the CNS 
a. Subgaleal hematoma occurs just above the scalp aponeurosis
b. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is most commonly due to systemic hypertension
c. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is most commonly due to rupture of berry aneurysms
d. Intraparenchymal hemorrhage may be a feature of concussion

52. Which of these is not a component of hypertensive Cerebrovascular disease 
a. Lacunar infarct 
b. Slit hemorrrhages
c. Hypertensive encephalopathy
d. Hyaline arteriolosclerosis
e. Formation of saccular (berry) aneurysm


53. The following are sequelae of CNS infection except
a. Dementia pugilistica
b. Epilepsy
c. Hearing loss
d. Paralysis

54. HIV neuropathy include the following except
a. Meningoencephalitis
b. Vacuolar myelopathy
c. peripheral neuropathy
d. Neuritic plaque deposit

55. Alzheimer's disease 
a. Impairs higher intellectual function with alteration in mood and behavior.
b. Typical symptomatic before 50years, incidence rises with age.
c. Most cases are familial
d. pathological examination of brain tissue is optional for definitive diagnosis

56. WHO grading of CNS tumors
a. Most meningioma are WHO grade I/IV 
b. Papillary and Rhabdoid Menigioma are WHO grade II/IV 
c. Pilocytic Astrocytoma is WHO grade II/IV 
d. Embryonal tumors e.g Medulloblastomas are WHO grade II/IV 


57. CNS tumors are different from tumors of other organs because 
a. There is a clear distinction between Benign and Malignant lesions
b. Tumors of certain sites can be fatal irrespective of the tumor type 
c. Surgical resection without compromise of neurologyic function is easily done 
d. They metastasize quickly

58. A 30 year Old male died within 24 hours of arrival at the emergency unit with a presumend diagnosis 
of bacterial meningitis. At autopsy he had extensive purulent exudates at the base of the brain.
what are the likely causative pathogens?
a. Streptococcus pneumoniae
b. staphylococus aureus
c. Neisseria meningitides
d. Haemophilus influenza


59. Which of the following statements is most appropriate regarding endocrine neoplasia?
a. The GNAS I mutation is a relatively common occurrence
b. Functional endocrine malignancies are relatively common
c. Functional adenomas are relatively rare
d. Paraneoplaastic syndromes are common
e. None of the above 

60. Which of the following hormones has its receptors in the nucleus?
a. Insulin
b. Glucagon 
c. Gastrin
d. Thyroxine 
e. Ghrelin

61. A 45 year old lady presented with feature of raised intracranial pressure and
bitemporal hemianopia. Computed tomography of the brain revealed a pituitary tumour impinging 
on the optic chiasma. An excisional biopsy of teh mass revealed epithelial cells with minimal cytoplasm
and no granules. Her diagnosis ought to be 
a. Acidophil Adenoma
b. Basophil adenoma
d. Chromophobe adenoma 
e. Null cell adenoma 

62. Which of the following is correct abour cells of the adenohypophysis?
a. Acidophils produce the so called trophic hormones 
b. Basophils produce growth hormones
c. Chromophobes produce no hormones 
d. Acidophils produce no hormones
e. Chromophobe produce both trophic and growth hormones

63. A 22 year old woman present with complaints of milt secretion from her breasts. 
She also complains of amenorrhoea. Serum and urinary Beta HCG are negative. What is the most likely
diagnosis for this patient?
a. Breast abscess
b. Polycystic ovary syndrome
c. Acidophil pituitary adenoma 
d. Basophil pituitary adenoma
e. Chromophobes pituitary adenoma 

64. Syndromes of inappropriate ADH secretion is due to which of the following?
a. meningitis
b. Small cell lung disease
c. Non-Neoplastic lung disease
d. Neurohypophyseal injury
e. All of the above

65. Which of the following is incorrect about thyroid disorders?
a. A thyroid gland weighing about 25g is enlarged 
b. Tertiary hyperthyroidism is when the primary problem is hypothalamic
c. Tertiary hypothyroidism is when the primary defect is hypothalamic
d. Secondary hyperthyroidism is due to a primary defect in the pituitary
e. Secondary hypothyroidism is due to a primary defect in the pituitary

66. Which of the following is incorrect of Hashimoto thyroidistis?
a. It is the commonest cause of hypothyroidism in iodine-sufficient areas 
b. It is commoner in women 
c. Diagnosis requires the presence of primary lymphoid follicles in the thyroid disrupting it's architecture
d. Transient hyperthyroidism often precedes the hypothyroidism

67. It is an autoimmune disease
a. Graves' disease 
b. Is an autoimmune disease characterised by inflammatory dysfunction of the thyroid 
c. Is characterised by enlargement and diffuse nodularity of the thyroid
d. Is mediated by type 2 hypersensitivity reaction
e. May be caused by goitrogens in certain vegetables 
f. Is associated with Secondary lymphoid follicles


68. A 55 year old woman has moon facies, buffalo hymp and cutaneous striae. Which is 
most correct about her primary pathology?
a. Acidophil adenomoa of the pituitary
b. Basophil adenomoa of the pituitary
c. Chromophobe adenoma of the pituitary
d. Null cell adenoma of the pituitary
e. Posterior pituitary adenoma

69. A 33 year old man presents with a neck mass. Biospy reveales 
follicles lined by cuboidal cells with optically clear and overcrowded nuclei with
pseudoinclusions. No Papillary structures are seen and  the capsule is intact. Which of the following
is the most likely diagnosis?
a. Papillary carcinoma 
b. Follicular carcinoma
c. Medullary carcinoma
d. Anaplastic carcinoma
e. Metastatic carcinoma

70. A 65-year old woman presents with an anterior neck mass of 3 months. It moves with swallowing 
and not with tongue protussion. Biospy reveals a Neoplastic lesions showing follicles-like structures
lined by cuboidal cells and interspered by hyalinised congo red-positive stroma 
with apple-green interspersed on polarised light. What is the most likely diagnosis?
a. Papillary carcinoma 
b. Follicular carcinoma
c. Medullary carcinoma
d. Anaplastic carcinoma
e. Metastatic carcinoma


71. Which of the following is untrue of phaeochromocytoma?
a. Is treated by surgery of both the primary tumour and the metastases
b. Is over 80% unilateral
c. Is over 85% adrenal
d. Is a childhood tumour in 10% of cases 
e. Mostly arised in the setting of multiple arises in the setting of multiple endocrine neoplasia

72. Werner's syndrome least likely entails 
a. Parncreatic VIPoma
b. Parncreatic gastrinoma
c. Parathyroid hyperplasia
d. Parathyroid adenoma
e. pituitary adenoma 

73. Which of the following hormones is not a product of the endocrine pancreas?
a. Glucagon 
b. Ghrelin
c. Somatostatin 
d. Polypeptide 
e. All of the above 

74. Morphological presentation of seminoma include 
a. Bulky masses with grey-white lobulated surface
b. Size is usually smaller than the size of the normal testes 
c. The stromal may contain lymphocytes 
d. The cells are large, round to polygonal 
e. May present as poorly deemarcalised lobules 

75. Which of these are relevant in Prostatic Adenocarcinoma diagnosis
a. Gleason scores of 43 
b. Maximum Gleason score is 12 
c. Minimum score is 2 
e. Quatenary grades only 

76. The mullerian duct fused to form the following structures
a. Gartner duct 
b. Uterus 
c. Rete Ovarii
d. Lower part of the vagina 
e. Ovaries 

77. Which of these is not involved in Breast cancer pathogenesis 
a. Mutation of BRCA genes
b. Mutation of Atasis Telengietasia genes 
c. Mutation of P53 genes
d. Mutation of PTEN genes
e. Prolong progesterion exposures

78. Fibroadenoms may be characterised by the following except
a. Freely mobile lesions
b. compromessed acini 
c. Mostly Dilated ducts with apocrine changes 
d. Myxoid stroma 
e. Hyalinized stromal 

79. Hereditary breast cancer pathogenesis may be characterised by the following except
a. Mutation of BRCA genes
b. Hormonal influence 
c. Mutation of p53 genes
d. Mutation of phosphatase and tension (PTEN) genes
e. Li Fraumeni syndrome

80. Proliferating breast lesion without atypia include the following except
a. Sclerosing adenosis 
b. Epithelial hyperplasia 
c. Granulomatoses mastopathy 
d. Papillomas 
e. Comples Sclerosing lesion

81. The following feature is true of endometrial carcinoma
a. It is commonly seen in premenoposal women
b. Type II endometrial carcinoma is also known as endometroid carcinoma
c. Type I endometrial carcinoma include grade I, II and III 
d. variant like serous and clear cell carcinoma are among grade I 
e. Malignant mixed mullerian tumour is among the grade I variant

82. Morphological features of endometrial carcinoma are correct except
a. Type I endometrial CA form clear gland that may resembles normal endothelial gland 
b. Type I is also called endometroid CA 
c. Grade II is moderately differentiated
d. Type II is well differentiated
e. Grade II forms solid sheets of cells with greater nuclear atypia

83. In ovarian tumour classification the following is true 
a. Brenmera tumour is a clear cell tumour 
b. Fibro-checomas is a transitional cell tumour 
c. Immature teratoma is a germ cell tumour 
d. Sertoli cell tumour is an epithelial stromal tumour 
e. York sac tumour is a sex cord stromal tumour 

84. In serous tumours of the ovary the following are true except
a. Malignant tumours are more common than benig and borderline tumours 
b. Mutation of BRACA I and BRCA II genes increase susceptibility
c. Mutation of K-RAS is implicated in hign implicated
d. Mutation of P53 is highly implicated in high grade 
e. Genetic mutation may be highly implicated

85. Which of the following is true of teh aetiopathogenesis of carcinoma of the cervix 
a. Activation of cycline D, A and E play a role 
b. Inactivation of cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs) 6, 4 and 2 
c. P53 gene does not play a role 
d. Oncoproteins activates tumour suppressor genes (TSG)
e. Cyclins are tumour suppressor genes 

86. Which of the following is not correct of carcinoma of the cervix 
a. Stage III is carcinoma confined to the cervix 
b. Stage 0 is carcinoma in situ 
c. Stage III is carcinoma with  extension beyond the cervix
d. Stage IV is carcinoma in the bladder 
e. stage IV is distance metastasis 

87. Which of this is not relevant in the aetiopathogenesis of endometral hyperplasia
a. Loss of oxidation or inactivation of phosphatases and tensin(PTEN)
b. Inactivation of a transcription factor 
c. Phosphorylation of protein kinase II (PK II)
d. Genetic alteration play an insignificant role 
e. Transcription factor drives protein synthesis 

88. Which of the following is most appropriate 
a. Medical examination system is the system used in the United states 
and requires an inquired to be carried 
b. The excypt system is practiced in Britain and it does not required and inquired 
c. Proculator Fiscal system is the system praticed in Nigeria 
d. None of the above 

89. A young athlete suddey died unexpectedly. At autopsy, the left ventricle has 
a banana shape rather that the usual rounded or oval configuration. A rods aortic bulge 
and asymmetrical septal hypertrophy were also noted. This athlete died of whichof this condition
a. Idiopathic cardiomyopathy
b. Idiopathic hypertropic sub aortic stenosis 
c. Excessive excercise
d. Heart attack 
e. Arrhythmoogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy

90. With regards to firearms, deaths resulting from accidental gunshot are more common in 
a. Adults 
b. Elderly 
c. Children 
d. All of the above
e. None of the above 

91. In the guestimation of the time since death, bluish coloration of the body 
due to gravitaion of blood to dependent areas with sparing of areas of contact 
flattening occured 
a. 12-14 hours after death 
b. 2-16 hours after death 
c. 2-4 hours after death 
d. 2-14 hours after death 
e. 2-8 hours after death 


92. A dead body was observed to be in sustained contraction, guestimate the
time since death 
a. 12-24 hours after death 
b. 0-14 hours after death 
c. 6-14 hours after death 
d. 12-36 hours after death 
e. 36 hours after death 

93. A stray riffle bullet hit a person on the chest, he sustains skeletal and soft tissue 
injury with massive hemothorax and he dies shortly after, what is the cause of death 
a.  1a. Massive haemothorax 
    1b. Multiple soft tissue and skeletal injuries 
    1c. Gunshot injury to the chest 

b. 1a. Gunshot injury to the chest 
   1b. Massive haemothorax 
   1c. Multiple soft tissue and skeletal injuries

c. 1a. Gunshot injury to the chest 
    1b. Multiple soft tissue and skeletal injuries
    1c. Massive haemothorax

d. A and C are correct
e. B and C are correct

94. Kayser-fleischer ring is pathognomonic of which of these disease condition
a. Haemochromatosis 
b. Wilson's disease
c. familial Adenomatous Polyposis 
d. Hypertensive retinopathy 
e. Diabetic retinopathy


95. The most sensitive and accurated test for detection of Wilson's disease is 
a. Decrease in serum ceruloplasmin 
b. Increased in hepatic copper content 
c. Increased urinary excretion of copper 
d. Serum copper level are of diagnostic value 
e. All of the above 

96. Bronze skin is associated with which of the following disorder
a. Liver cirrhosis 
b. Inborn error of copper accumulation disease
c. Haemochromatosis
d. Wilson's disease
e. Alpha I antitripsin deficiency 


97. This bullous disorder has supra basally located bullae that confers a tombstone apprearance. 
The cavity contain cells with loss of cohesion
a. Pemphigus vegetans 
b. Pemphigus foliaceous 
c. Pemphigus vulgaris 
d. Perophigus erythematosus 

98. The bullious disorder has a superficial subcorneal bulliae. The cavity contains 
cell with loss of cohession
a. Pemphigus vegetans 
b. Pemphigus foliaceous 
c. Pemphigus vulgaris 
d. Perophigus erythematosus 
e. None of the above

99. This cutaneous connective tissue disease is characterised by hyperkeratosis,
epidermal thining, hydropic and Hyalinized 2q collagen in the upper dermis, inflammatory infiltrate in the mid dermis and 
affects the femal genital skin with increased frequency in comparison to the males. In females it is called 
a. Discoid lupus erythematosis 
b. 











