1. Which of the following neoplasms is least likely to demonstrate a finger-like growth pattern? 
a. Thyroid cancer 
b. Liver cancer 
c. They contain both epithelial and 
d. mesenchymal components 

2. A 59 year old woman presents with an anterior neck mass, which on examination moves with swallowing but not with tongue protrusion. She then undergoes a fine needle aspiration cytology procedure which reveals the mass to be made up of cells from the thyroid gland. For which one of the following possible diagnoses must further evaluation by histology be performed? 
a. Anaplastic carcinoma 
b. Medullary carcinoma 
c. Papillary carcinoma 
d. Follicular neoplasmi 
e. Multinodular goitre 

3. Which of the following statements is technically least appropriate about a polyp? 
a. Epithelial proliferation is often involved 
b. It always projects above a mucosal or epithelial surface
c. Acute inflammation is an etiological factor 
d. Some are inflammatory while 
others are neoplastic 
e. Some are benign and others 
malignant 

4. Which of the following statements is most valid regarding mixed tumours? 
a. They contain cells from more 
than one germ layer 
b. They contain both epithelial and mesothelial elements 
c. They contain both neoplastic 
and non-neoplastic elements 
d. They contain both epithelial and 
mesenchymal components 

5. Misnormers in tumour nomenclature include all the following except
a. Hepatoma 
b. Lymphoma 
c. Hamartoma 
d. Seminoma 
e. Dysgerminoma 

6. Which of the following statements is incorrect about dysplasia 
a. It literally means "abnormal growth" 
b. It is a single step away from malignant transformation 
c. Some features of malignancy 
are microscopically present 
d. Clinical decision making is based on the grade of dysplasia 
e. Even high grade dysplasia may not develop into malignancy 


7. A 19 year old girl presents comatose and in severe dehydration, with deranged electrolytes. She has a random blood sugar of 39mg/dL, a body mass index less than 17kg/m amenorrhoea and marks on her knuckles. She most likely suffers from 
a. A mental health disorder 
b. A gynaecological disorder 
c. An endocrine disorder 
d. A developmental disorder 
e. A neurological disorder 

8. Examples of cancers for which targeted 
therapy is now widely available include all of the following except 
a. Certain subtypes of breast cancer 
b. CD20-positive non-Hodgkin lymphoma 
c. CD117-positive Gastrointestinal stromal tumour 
d. Cervical cancer
e. None of the above

9. Which of the tollowing & diabetes specific morphology in the kidney? 
a. Nodular glomerulosclerosis
b. Glomerular basement membrane thickening 
c. Ditlase mesangial scleres
d. Renal papillary necrosis 
e. Glomerular obsolescence 


10 Common benign childhood disease 
a. Fibromatosis 
b. Choristoma 
c. Hamartoma 
d. wing's sarcoma 
e. Seminoma 

11. A 4 month old infant was found dead in bed while asleep. Examination of death scene and autopsy were not contributory. This of the following statements is correct about this  case
a. It is known as crib death 
b. Cause is usually known 
c. It is the commonest cause of death in infants 
d. Immaturity of the lungs has been implicated 
e. The supine sleeping position increases the risk 

12. Which of the following genes has been implicated for congenital defects 
a. MyC gene 
b. Ras gene 
c. PAX genes 
d. Bcl-2 gene 
e. p53 gene
 
13. A 9 year old boy had 3months history of difficulty in breathing. Chest X-ray showed a huge mediastinal mass. A punch biopsy revealed a small round blue cell tumour. What are the possible diagnoses 
a. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma 
b. Retinoblastoma 
c. Medulloblastoma 
d. Primitive neuroectodermal tumor
e. Wilm's tumour

14 The following translocations are correctly matched with their neoplastic lesions 
a. t(9,22)________Chronic lymphocytic lymphoma 
b. t(2, 8)_________Burkitt's lymphoma 
c. t(14.18)________Maltoma Retinoblastoma 
d. t(11 22) ________Retinoblastoma 
e. t(11,18)_________Acute lymphoblastic leukemia 

15. Which of these is not a component of tetralogy of fallot 
a. Truncus arteriosus 
b. Ventricular septal defect 
c. Right ventricular hypertrophy 
d. Overiding aorta 
e. Sub pulmonary stenosis 

16. Left sided heart failure is characterized by all of the following except 
a.  Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy 
b. Brown induration of the lungs 
c. Nutmeg liver 
d. Hypoxic encephalopathy 
e. Acute tubular necrosis 

17. Which of these is not true of subacute infective endocarditis
a. Often affects damaged heart valves and individuals with artificial heart valves 
b. commonest cause is Streptococcus viridans 
c. Numerous tiny, firm vegetations on the mitral valve 
d. May be caused by the HACEK group of orgasms 
e. Rheumatic heart disease is a predisposing factor 

18. With regards to transmural myocardial infarction, which of the following is false
a. Caused mostly, by a superimposed thrombus on an atherosclerotic plaque 
b. ECG shows ST-segment elevation 
c. Elevated levels of Creatine Kinase, troponin and LDH 
d. Circumferential Infarcts involving the inner 1/3rd of the myocardium 
e. Occlusion occurs most commonly in the anterior descending artery

19. Which of the following is a characteristic feature of Endocardial fibroelastosis 
a. Diffuse fibroelastic thickening of the left ventricular endocardium 
b. Cardiomegaly with markedly dilated heart chambers 
c. Cardiomegaly with markedly hypertrophied interventricular septum 
d. Marked thinning of the right ventricular wall with massive fatty infiltration 
e. Vegetations on the endocardium and heart valves 

20. A 35 year old lady has fever and erythematous facial rashes on the malar region. Echocardiogram shows vegetations on the mitral valve. Laboratory results reveals positive double stranded DNA and anti-smith antibody. The likely diagnosis is 
a. Scleroderma 
b. Polyarteritis nodosa 
c. Systemic lupus erythematosus 
d. Rheumatic carditis 
e. Non thrombotic endocarditis 

21. Pathologic autoimmune reactions are normally avoided because of the immunologic tolerance mechanisms of oral deletion and clonal anergy Which of 
d. cross reaction with antibodies to foreign antigen 
e. Sequestration of antigens 

22. The following statements regarding HIV infection are true except 
a. Monocytes and macrophages are the major reservoir of infection 
b: Reverse transcriptase is required for viral replication 
c. The envelope protein gp120 is required for the attachment of HIV virus to CD4 receptor of target cells 
d. CXCR4 is the chemokine receptor present in host macrophages that helps in primary attachment of HIV 
e. Tuberculosis is a predominant in chronically infected HIV or AIDS patients 

23. Which of the following statements is not true regarding the effector phase of delayed type type hypersensitivity reaction (DTH) 
a. T Helper 2 cells secrete antibodies and activate antibody-dependent cell Cytotoxicity 
b. The response generally peaks at 48-72 hours after a second exposure 
c. T Helper 2 secrete interferon gamma that recruit and activate macrophages 
d. DTH is visible as granulomatous inflammation 
e. Tuberculin reaction is A prototype 

a. SAA amyloid occurs in chronic inflammatory disorders 
b. Is a basophilic granular substance which can be stained with congo red 
c. May occur in medullary carcinoma of the thyroid 
d. May result in restrictive cardiomyopathy 
e. Al amyloidosis is associated with multiple myeloma
 
25. Oedema of the brain can cause instant death due to 
a. Compression of the cerebral hemisphere 
b. Thrombosis affecting the cerebral blood vessels 
c. Herniation of the cerebellar tonsils and compression of medullary centres 
d. Increase susceptibility to infection by gram negative organism 
e. Compression and narrowing of the ventricles 

26. One of the following oedema is not due to increase hydrostatic pressure 
a. Oedema due to nephrotic syndrome 
b. Oedema due venous thrombosis 
c. Oedema due to congestive cardia failure 
d. Odema due to liver cirrhosis 
e. Oedema due to arterial occlusion 

27. Periorbital oedema occurs commonly in 
a. Congestion cardiac failure 
b. Nephrotic syndrome 
c. Malnutrition 
d. Cirrhosis 
e. Septicaemia 

28.
b. Acute hepatitis 
c. Liver cirrhosis 
d. Hepatoma 
e. Diffuse fibrous of the liver 

29 The correct statement about Atelectasis 
a. Mediastinum shift to the affected side in resorption atelectasis 
b. Mediastinum shift to the affected side on compression atelectasis 
c. Mediastinum does not shift in resorption atelectasis 
d. The bronchial airway is affected in contraction atelectasis 
e. Cor pulmonale is commonly seen in compression atelectasis 

30. The duration of cough in chronic bronchitis should be at least 
a. 3 months for 3 consecutive years 
b. 2 months for 2 consecutive years 
c. 3 months for 2 consecutive years 
d. 2 months for 3 consecutive years 
e. 2 months for 4 consecutive years 

31. Which is not a feature of primary pulmonar tuberculosis 
a. Lesion may undergo fibrosis 
and calcification 
b. It is usually asymptomatic 
c. Spread cavitation is usual 
d. May start from another site apart from the lungs 
e. Ghon complex is a combinat 
of parenchymal lung lesion hilar lymph node 

32. The most common manifestation of asbestosis is 
a. Mesothelioma 
b. Bronchogenic carcinoma 

33. neurosyphilis
a. Manifests as firms raised red residue fenosis moll on the head
b. Tabes dorsalis is a generalized brain parenchymal disease
c. General paresis is paralysis due to spinal cord involvement 
d. The presence of antibiotics to spirochietes in CSF in the absence of neurologic symptoms is indicative 
e. Is treated with short course antibiotic therapy 

34. Which of the following is a Transforming virus.
a. Ebstem Barr Virus
b. Human Papiloma Virus
c. Hepatitis C virus
d. All of the above
e. None of the above

35. Primary Tuberculosis
a. Develops in previously exposed. unsensitized persons 
b. Does not progress. 
c. The source of organism is endogenous 
d. Presents as an apical cavitary lesion 
e. May present as an upper lower lobe consolidation 

36. The following are true of Pathogenesis of TB except 
a. T4l response orchestrates the formation of granulomas and caseous necrosis 
b. Macrophages become bactericidal when activated by IFN-Y 
c. Activated macrophages secrete TNF. to recruit more monocytes 
d.  hypersensitivity is evidence of 
immunity 
e. less of hypersensitivity can 
of persisting 

 

37. Which of the following is a transforming 
Virus 
Lbstem Ban Virus 
Human Papilloma Virus Hepatitis C Virus 
d. Onchosarcomia ------simodium black fly
e. River blindness -------hepar lobatumm 

38. Regarding the mantous test. The following can cause a false positive reaction 
a. Infection with atypical mycobacteria 
b . Certain viral infections 
c. Overwhelming active Primary Tuberculosis disease
d. Immunosupression
e. All of the above

39. Which of these are not correctly matched 
a. Syphilis-------treponema pallidum 
b. Hansen's disease ----- Mycobacterium leprae 
c. Kala-azar------Trypanosoma spp 
d. Black fever -------LD bodies 
e. Lepra cells --------Globi 

40. Which of the following is true of Malaria 
a. Hyperendemic highly endemic zones there is persistent year- round transmission. 
b. Hyperendemic/ highly endemic zones: The spleen rate is >75% and parasite rate > 75%. 
e. Stable or holoendemic zones: 
the spleen and parasite rates ar between 50 and 74%. 
d. Stable or holoendemic zones: Malarial transmission is seasonal 
e. None of the above. 

41. The following are relevant in Prostatic adenocarcinoma diagnosis except 
a. Age
b. Gleason score of 18 
c. Gleason score of 2 
d. Primary and secondary grades 
e. Family history
 
42. Turners syndrome is characterized by the following 
a. Leydig cell hypertrophy 
b. large ovaries 
c. Menonhagia 
d. Coarctation of the aorta 
e. Eunochord body habitus
 
43. The following are molecular diagnosis and their application in genetic disorders except 
a. FISH ______ Complex genetic 
translocation 
b. FISH ______Gene amplification 
c. Southern blot_____DNA analysis mainly 
d Microarray_______populati on study of genetic disorders 
e. Northern blot _______DNA studies

44 Marfan syndrome is characterized by the following except 
a. Cherry red spot 
b. Dolichocephalic 
c. Mutation of FBN 1 gene 
d .Mitral valve prolapse 
e. Mutation of fibrillin II 

45. Familial Hypercholesterolaemia is 
characterized by one of the following 
a.  Glycogen accumulation 
b. Shingomyelin accumulation 
c. Glycolipid accumulation n 
d. Premature atherosclerosis 
e. Gauchers cells 

46. Down syndrome is characterized by one of the following 
a. More than 90% of the patient 
are mosaics 
b. Robertsonian translocation may be involved 
c. Trisomy 18 
d. 47. XX. +18 karyotype 

47. In obstructive lung diseases 
be normal 


48. A painless cervical lymph node was 
biopsied from an individual with a previous history of tooth infection. The biopsy was sent for for histopathological examination and numerous lymphoid follicles were seen under the microscope. Which one of the following will rule out a reactive follicular hyperplasia 
a. Preservation of lymph node archictecture 
b. Marked variation in shape and 
size of the lymphoid follicles 
c. Frequent mitotic figures 
d. Tangible body macrophages 
e. Uniformity in the size of 
lymphoid nodules with loss of interfollicular T zones and sinusoids 

49. Which immunohistochemical marker best defines a chronic lymphocytic lymphoma diagnosis 
a. CD 19+, CD20+ ,CD23-, CD5- 
b. CD 19+, CD20+ ,CD23+, CD5 
c. CD 19+  CD20+, CD23-, CD5
d. CD 19+, CD20- ,CD23+, CD5
e.  CD 19+, CD20+,CD23+, CD5

50. Cyclin D1+ immunohistochemcal stainin in addition to which one of the following combinations will define a mantle cell lymphoma 
a. CD 19+, CD20+ CD23-, CP 
b. CD 19+, CD20+,CD23+, C 
c. CD 19+, CD20+,CD23-, C 
d. CD 19+ CD20-CD23+, C 
e. CD 19+, CD20+,CD23+, 


 

