1. The following immune deposits on EM matches their glomerular lesions correctly. 
a. Intramembranous deposit and FSGS 
b. Subepithelial humps Thin basement membrane disease 
e. Mesangial deposit and Minimal change disease 
d. Subendothelial deposit and ANCA associated GN 
e. Subepithelial deposit and membranous glomerulonephritis 

2. Presence of interstitial forms cells with nephrotic range proteinuria is suggestive of 
a. Minimal change disease 
b. Thin basement membrane disease 
c. Secondary FSGS 
d. Alport syndrome 
e. Goodpasture syndrome. 

3. About lupus nephritis 
a. Renal biopsy is needed for diagnosis 
b. Effacement of foot processes is a common feature 
c. Electron dense deposits are only intramembranous 
d. Immunofluorescence is strongly positive for only IgM 
e. Little ог по relevant pathology is 

4. The following renal lesions associated with interstitial foam cells 
a. Secondary FSGS 
b. Alport syndrome 
c. Dense deposit disease 
d. Fibronectin glomerulopathy 
e. Thin basement membrane disease 

5. Tubulorecticular inclusions are seen the following renal diseases 
a. Renal Tuberculosis 
b. Lupus Nephritis. 
c. IgA nephropathy 
d. Amyloidosis 
e. Light chain Nephropathy 

6. Which of the following is not a small round blue cell tumour 
a. Retinoblastoma 
b. Burkitt's lymphoma 
c. Ewing sarcoma 
d. Nephroblastoma 
e. Hepatoblastoma 

7. About Membranoproliferative GN 
a. It is also known as Nephritis 
b. Morphology may be on light microscopy 
c. The type II is known a deposit disease 
d. Only the complement pathway activated in the tune 


8. Which statement accurately describes aspects of the inguinoscrotal phase of testicular descent?
a. The inguinoscrotal phase of testicular descent is androgen independent 
b. There is no associated risk in the development of testicular cancer 
c. Placement of the testis into the scrotal sac (orchiopexy) guarantees fertility 
d. There is progressive testicular atrophy and non-sparing of the Leydig cells 
e. It is associated with factors that are anatomic not related to position since malignant change may occur in the normal descended testis. 

9. about Fabry's disease 
a. It is an autosomal dominant lysosomal storage disorder 
b. It presents typically nephrotic syndrome 
c. Tubulointerstitial can be seen on EM as inclusion 
d. Zebra bodies on EM are diagnostic 
e. All of the above 

10. following are true concerning isy except 
a. It is a surgical procedure 
b. It ALWAYS entails thorough of patients examination (corpse) 
c. Manner of death is synonymous to cause of death 
d. Dissection is mandatory 
e. Determines the cause of death 

11. year old man presents with a history rent admissions for lower urinary structive symptoms of 3 years 
for which
are skeptical about surgery because the anaesthetist assessment reveals that the to undergo unfit was patent prostatectomy because of a heart related disease. Which of the following DISEASES will not be associated with this condition assuming the disease progression follows its normal course. 
a. Pyelonephritis 
b. Hydronephrosis 
c. Prostatic adenocarcinoma 
d. Renal failure 

12. This immunohistochemical profile; Reed-Stemberg cells CD20+, CD15-, CD30- 
a. Nodular sclerosis 
b. Mixed cellularity 
c. Lymphocyte depletion 
d. Lymphocyte predominance 
e. Lymphocyte rich 


13. Typically, Reed-Sternberg cells are difficult to find in which following Hodgkin's lymphoma 
a. Nodular sclerosis 
b. Mixed cellularity 
c. Lymphocyte depletion 
d. Lymphocyte predominance 
e. Lymphocyte rich 

14. About Urothelial Carcinomas of the renal pelvis; 
a. They are squamous cell neoplasms 
b. They are columnar cell neoplasms 
c. They typically present with hematuria 
d. They rarely recur 
e. They usually present late 

15. The infective form of Malaria parasite is the 
a. Merozoite 
b. Sporozoite 
c. Trophozoite
d. Schizont

16. Which statement regarding syphilis is accurate?
a. Latent phase may last 5 years or more 
b. cardiovascular syphilis is a manifestation of secondary disease 
c. syphilitic aortitis, accounts for more than 80% of cases of secondary syphilis 
d. CSF parameters are normal in Neurosyphilis 

17. Which of these is a non-astrocytic glioma 
a. Pilocytic astrocytoma 
b. Glioblastoma 
c. Transitional Meningioma 
d. Subependymoma 

18. In cerebral oedema 
a. The brain is shrunken 
b. The gyri are narrowed 
c. The sulci are widened 
d. The brain sags on its axis. 

19. Which of these is a forebrain anomaly 
a. The Arnold-Chiari malformations 
b. The Dandy-walker malformations 
c. Spina bifida 
d. Polymicrogyria 


20. Which of these is not typical of hypertensive cerebrovascular disease 
a. Lacunar infarct 
b. Slit hemorrhages 
c. Hyaline arteriolosclerosis 
d. Formation of Saccular (berry) aneurysm 

21. Which of the following has been licated in carcinogenesis 
a. Ebstein Barr Virus 
b. Human Papilloma Virus. 
c. Hepatitis B Virus 
d. All of the above 

22. Which of this is a reaction of Neurons injury 
3. Red neurons 
b. Accumulation of Rosenthal fibers 
c. Corpora amylacea deposit 
d. Gliosis 

23. Which of these statements is true 
a. Epidural hematoma is most commonly due to rupture of bridging veins 
b. Subdural hematoma is typically due to a rupture of the middle meningeal artery 
c. Subdural hematoma is often due to rupture of bridging veins 
d. Subdural hematoma is uncommon in the elderly 

24. Schiller-Duval bodies is characteristic of which lesion 
a. Spermatocytic seminoma 
b. Embryonal carcinoma 
c. Yolk sac tumour 
d. Seminoma 
e. Dysgerminoma 

25. A woman in her thirties has three strokes within four years, with blood within the CSF. She recovers completely each time, but dies in fourth attack. At post mortem there is much blood under the arachnoid, but there was neither rupture of anterior cerebral artery nor presence of Berry aneurysm. What would you most expect to find on sectioning of the brain 
a. Thrombosis of lateral sinus 
b. Ependymoma of the fourth ventricle 
c. Vascular malformation 
d. Very vascular glioblastoma multiforme 
e. Charcot Bouchard's aneurysm

26. Which of the following substances or conditions is most likely to induce cellular injury through the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a biological system?
a. Arsenic acid 
b. Cyanide 
c. Extremes of temperature. 
d. Free radical 
e. Ascorbic acid 

27. An example of Apoptosis 
a. Councilman bodies 
b. Calcifications 
c. Psammoma bodies. 
d. Russell's bodies 
e. Brown atrophy 

28. In reperfusion injury free radicals are produced by 
a. Natural killer cells 
b. Monocytes 
c. Neutrophils 
d. Lymphocytes 
e. Eosinophils 

29. The first to be damaged in Ischeamia and chemical injury respectively. 
a. Cell membrane and nucleus 
b. ER and Lysosomes 
c. Mitochondria and ER 
d. Golgi body and lysosome 
e. Microtubule and  cell membrane 

30. Necrosis in the brain is 
a. Coagulative 
b. Liquefactive. 
c. Heterolysis 
d. Caseous 
e. Gangrenous 

31. Calcification is a common feature in necrosis. Which of the following necrotic feature is calcification not found? 
a. Caseous necrosis 
b. Coagulative necrosis 
c. Gangrenous necrosis 
d. Liquefactive necrosis 
e. Fat necrosis. 

32. Reid index. 
a. The ratio of the of the thickness of the submucosa to that of the wall which spans from the epithelium to below the submucosal gland layer 
b. The ratio of the of the thickness of the mucous gland layer to that of the wall which from the spans epithelium to the cartilage 
c. The ratio of the of the thickness of the mucous gland layer to that of the wall which spans from the epithelium to the adventitia
d. The ratio of the of the thickness of the submucosa to that of the wall which spans from the epithelium to the cartilage 

33. Concerning the pores of Kohn 
a. It is not exclusively seen in the gastrointestinal tract 
b. It is not exclusively seen in the respiratory system 
c. It is a macroscopic connection between the bronchi and alveoli thus can permit the passage of bacteria and exudates 
d. It is a microscopic connection between the bronchi and alveoli thus can permit the passage of bacteria and exudates 
e. It is a microscopic connection between the adjacent alveoli thus can permit the passage of bacteria and exudates

34. A patient present with a history of progressive difficulty in breathing of a week duration. There was associated fever, occasional cough with purulent sputum, wheezing and weight loss and prolonged expiration. He is noticed to sit forward in a hunch-over position while breathing through pursed lips. Which of the following is true in this obstructive lung disease 
a. Signs and symptoms that overlaps with another obstructive lung disease is not a feature of this disease 
b. They can be referred to as pink puffers
c. Blue bloater is never a consideration at some stage of the disease 
d. Spirometry show an increase FVC/FEV1 ratio 

35. Metastatic calcification does not occur due to one of the following mechanism 
a. Resorption of bone due to primary or secondary tumour of bone 
b. Vitamin D intoxication  
c. Increase secretion of parathyroid hormone
d. Renal Failure 
e. Decrease secretion of parathyroid hormone  

36. A 39 year old woman has been given the maximum doses and chemotherapeutic drugs and radiation for a malignant tumour but has shown no response. Which of the following statements is the most plausible molecular explanation? 
a. The tumour lacks intact proto-oncogenes 
b. The tumour has intact sensors of DNA damage 
c. The tumour lacks intact Tp53 
d. The tumour has mutations in RAS 
e. The patient is a victim of fake drugs 

37. Which of the following statements is correct regarding colorectal most cancer? 
a. It is the most common cancer in our environment
b. Lynch syndrome is a risk factor owing to the presence of polyps 
c. A diet high in animal fat is thought to raise the risk 
d. Familial adenomatous polyposis coli is not pre-cancerous 
e. Only few strategic mutations are required 


38. Which statement below is true of chemical carcinogenesis? 
a. Initiation is a reversible step based on the innate ability of cells to repair chemically damaged DNA in 
b. Exposure to promoters may cause cancers uninitiated cells even 
c. Initiation always precedes promotion carcinogenesis in chemical 
d. If the time since initiation becomes very prolonged, the initiated cell becomes less susceptible to promoters 
e. Continuous exposure to the initiator only will eventually result in cancer 

39. A 45 year old man was diagnosed of an extranodal marginal zone B cell gastric lymphoma (MALToma). Which of the following would be most relevant in causing this lesion to regress? 
a. Selenium 
b. Metoclopramide 
c. Clarithromycin 
d. Erythromycin 
e. Antacids 

40. One of the following is not an oncogenic virus 
a. Rous sarcoma virus 
b. Hepatitis A virus 
c. Human immunodeficiency virus 
d. Human herpes virus type 8
e. Human papilloma virus type 11 

41. A 70 year old man died two minutes following his arrival at the Accident and Emergency Department. He was said to have been in coma for the previous three hours. He was also said to have been diabetic but this could not be re confirmed. Which of the following organ changes observed following an autopsy would most likely help confirm an ante mortem diabetic state? 
a. Glomerular membrane thickening basement 
b. Diffuse mesangial sclerosis 
c. Nodular glomerulosclerosis 
d. Hyaline arteriolosclerosis 
e. Chronic pyelonephritis 

42. Autopsy findings in the pancreas of a diabetic patient include all of the following except 
a. Insulitis 
b. Amyloid 
c. No findings 
d. Reduction in islet cell mass 
e. None of the above 

43. Which of the following is the most reliable determinant of malignancy in endocrine neoplasia? 
a. Marked pleomorphism nuclear 
b. Frequent abnormal mitoses 
c. Prominent nucleoli 
d. Metastasis 
e. Local invasion and recurrence

44. The diabetic state will significantly increase the risk of all of the following except 
a. Cancer 
b. Hypertension 
c. Hyperlipidemia 
d. Ischaemic heart disease 
e. Infections. 

45. Protein energy malnutrition is an unlikely finding in one of the following: 
a. Cancer 
b. Kwashiorkor 
c. Old age 
d. Anorexia nervosa 
c. Chronic alcoholism

46. A 65 year old retiree presents with cough, anorexia and weight loss. A chest X-ray shows a focal opacity in the apical aspect of his right lung. He has a significant history of cigarette smoking and occupational asbestos exposure. What is the most likely diagnosis? 
a. Asbestosis 
b. Smoker's cough 
c. Mesothelioma 
d. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 
e. Pulmonary tuberculosis 

47. Which following has of the following morphologic definition as opposed to a clinical definition 
a. Chronic bronchitis 
b. Emphysema 
c. Autopsy 
d. Restrictive lung disease 
e. Obstructive lung disease 

48. A Reid index of 0.8 is indicative of 
which of the following lesions 
a. Emphysema 
b. Bronchiectasis 
c. Chronic bronchitis 
d. Pneumoconiosis

49. Corcening World Health Organization cause of death 
a. la-Ib-lc 
b. Ila- Ilb-la-lb 
C. Ib-Ia 
d. II is of no consequences 

50. The following are autopsy techniques except 
a. Ghon's method 
b. Virchow technique 
c. Rokitansky technique 
d. Ghon's complex techniques 








