Electrophoresis is primarily used for the separation of which of the following in biological fluids?
a) DNA
b) RNA
c) Proteins
d) Lipoproteins

Who developed the first electrophoresis method for proteins in 1937?
a) Watson and Crick
b) Tiselius
c) Mendel
d) Franklin

Which component of the electrophoretic setup controls the amount of electricity?
a) Buffer
b) Tank
c) Power pack
d) Support medium

Which of the following is commonly used as a support medium in electrophoresis?
a) Ethanol
b) Cellulose acetate
c) Sodium chloride
d) Hydrochloric acid

What is the purpose of staining the cellulose acetate paper after electrophoresis?
a) To visualize the proteins
b) To remove excess buffer
c) To increase the conductivity
d) To reduce the pH

Which of the following dyes can be used for staining in electrophoresis?
a) Ponceau S
b) Acetic acid
c) Coomassie Brilliant Blue
d) All of the above

Which factor does not affect the migration and separation of solutes in electrophoresis?
a) Particle size and shape
b) Net charge on the particles
c) PH and ionic strength of the buffer
d) Temperature of the buffer

What is the isoelectric point (PI) of a molecule?
a) The point at which the molecule has a net zero charge
b) The point at which the molecule has a net positive charge
c) The point at which the molecule has a net negative charge
d) The point at which the molecule stops migrating in an electric field

At what pH is protein electrophoresis commonly performed?
a) pH 4.0
b) pH 6.0
c) pH 8.6
d) pH 10.0

How does the ionic strength of the buffer affect electrophoresis?
a) It decreases resolution
b) It increases heat production
c) It increases resolution
d) It decreases migration velocity

What is the purpose of the power pack in electrophoresis?
a) To control the amount of electricity
b) To control the temperature
c) To regulate the pH
d) To monitor the progress of electrophoresis

Which type of molecules have a net negative or positive charge at a given pH due to their amino acid composition?
a) Proteins
b) Lipids
c) Carbohydrates
d) Nucleic acids

How many distinct groups are proteins separated into in an electrophoretogram?
a) 2
b) 3
c) 4
d) 5

What is the principle behind the migration and separation of solutes in electrophoresis?
a) Particle size only
b) Net charge on the particles only
c) PH and ionic strength of the buffer only
d) All of the above

Which factor does not affect the migration and separation of solutes in electrophoresis?
a) Temperature
b) Net charge on the particles
c) Type of support medium
d) PH of the buffer

What is the role of the buffer in electrophoresis?
a) To increase the conductivity of the medium
b) To provide a medium for the migration of charged particles
c) To regulate the pH of the medium
d) All of the above

How does the support medium contribute to the separation of solutes in electrophoresis?
a) It provides a medium for the migration of charged particles
b) It affects the migration velocity of the particles
c) It determines the PH of the buffer
d) It does not play a role in separation

Which component of the electrophoretic setup is responsible for producing sharper bands but also increases heat production?
a) Buffer
b) Tank
c) Power pack
d) Support medium

Which type of staining is commonly used to visualize proteins after electrophoresis?
a) Ponceau S stain
b) Coomassie Brilliant Blue stain
c) Sudan Black stain
d) All of the above

Which factor does not affect the migration and separation of solutes in electrophoresis?
a) Type of support medium
b) PH of the buffer
c) Net charge on the particles
d) Humidity levels

Which of the following is NOT a type of electrophoresis?
a) Isoelectric focusing
b) Capillary
c) Southern blotting
d) Western blotting

Which type of electrophoresis allows migration of solutes for a fixed time followed by visualization of the pattern of zones of the separated substances?
a) Isoelectric focusing
b) Capillary
c) 2-dimensional
d) Zone electrophoresis

Which of the following is a common clinical lab electrophoresis method?
a) Capillary electrophoresis
b) Southern blotting
c) Western blotting
d) Zone electrophoresis

What is the primary use of zone electrophoresis in clinical labs?
a) Separation of lipoproteins
b) Identification of abnormal haemoglobin variants
c) Quantification of glycated haemoglobin fractions
d) Separation of proteins into albumin, alpha 1 and 2, beta and gamma globulins

Which of the following is NOT a use of electrophoresis in clinical labs?
a) Identification of abnormal haemoglobin variants
b) Separation of DNA fragments
c) Isoenzyme pattern analysis
d) Separation of proteins into albumin, alpha 1 and 2, beta and gamma globulins

Which condition is characterized by decreased albumin, alpha 1 and gamma globulin bands with increased alpha 2 and beta globulin bands due to increased alpha 2 macroglobulin?
a) Nephrotic syndrome
b) Liver cirrhosis
c) Chronic liver disease
d) Hemochromatosis

What might be visible at the point of application in nephrotic syndrome, mimicking a monoclonal band?
a) Alpha 1 globulin band
b) Beta globulin band
c) Gamma globulin band
d) A band

In liver cirrhosis, what is the appearance of the albumin band in electrophoresis?
a) High
b) Low
c) Bridging
d) None of the above

Which of the following is NOT an abnormal haemoglobin variant that can be identified using electrophoresis?
a) A
b) S
c) C
d) T

What is the primary purpose of isoenzyme pattern analysis using electrophoresis?
a) To identify DNA fragments
b) To separate lipoproteins
c) To quantify glycated hemoglobin fractions
d) To analyze enzyme patterns such as LDH, ALP, CK