Question 1 (20 marks)
a. What is haemostasis? (2 marks)
b. List 3 disorders of primary haemostasis (3 marks)
A 30-year-old lady presented to the haematology clinic with a history of menorrhagia
and bleeding from the gums of 6 months duration. There was no history of fever. On
examination the peripheral lymph nodes were not enlarged.
c. What are the possible differential diagnoses? (5 marks)
d. Using full blood count and the peripheral smear explain how you would rule in or
rule out your differentials. (6 marks)
e. List other investigation to confirm each of your differentials(4marks)


Question 2 (20 marks)
a. What is anemia?
b. Write short notes on the classification of Haemolytic Anaemia, based on the aetiology.

Question 3 (20 marks)
1. A 6-year-old boy was rushed to UBTH by the parents because of complaints of bone and
joint pains, dizziness and gum bleeding of 2 months duration. Physical examination revealed
pallor and laboratory results revealed a HB of 8g/dl, WBC, 50 x 109/L and platelet count of
30x109/L
A. What is your most likely diagnosis and your differentials?
B. How would you make the diagnosis?
C. What are the specialized tests that can be used and the results?
D. What are the prognostic factors you would consider?

Question 4 (20 marks)
a. Discuss specific measures to protect blood donors and Potential blood recipients in
the blood bank
b. Differentiate between blood products and blood derivatives. State three examples
of each and clinical indications for their use•

Question 5 (20 marks)
I.Mr. YZ, a 56-year-old business mogul P resented at your haematology clinic with 6 months
history Of polyuria. He also complained Of WOrsening poor vision along with some
neurological symptoms all Of which were relieved by therapeutic apheresis two weeks
earlier in the UK. All blood glucose studies were normal.
a.List the differential diagnoses. Suggest the most likely diagnosis (3marks)
blist the most appropriate diagnostic investigations as well as explain the aforementioned
complication(s) above (3 marks)
c.Describe the typical morphological findings in tie-peripheral blood and bone marrow
cvtoiogy/histology (4marks)
Two months ago, Mr. YZ began to experience severe lower back pain with right lower limb
fatigue and occasional urinary incontinence. Some imaging studies were done and a
previous peripheral blood film had shown normochromic/ normocytic red cells with
significant rouleau formation.
List 2 imaging studies and their findings (2marks)
d.Name the complication resulting in the incontinence and name the resulting
syndrome
(3 marks)
List the complications which usually gefine the disease (2 marks)
List 2 findings which would impact directly on the choice of treatment (3 marks).