1. Which of the folowing drugs is likely to increase the plasma warfarin concentration if co-prescribed to a patient on chronic warfarin therapy?
a. St John's wort
b. Phenobarbitone
c. Phenytoin
d. Omeprazole
e. Rifampicin

2. Therapeutic index of Drugs A, B, C. D, and E  are 2, 5, 15, 20, und 50, respectively, Based on this, which drug has the lowest potential to have adverse or toxic effects?
a. A
b. B
c. C
d. D
e. E

3. Achieving sicady statc is dependent on which of the following?
a. Bioavailability
b. Loading dose
c. Half-Life
d. Clearance
e. Volume of distribution

4. Maintenance of steady stase is dependent on which of the following?
a. Bioavailability
b. Loading dose
c. Half-life
e Volume of distribution

5. Which of the following is the highest determinant of clearance of a dnig?
a. Half-Life
b. Dose adminstered
c. Volume of distribution
d. Blood flow to the eliminating organ
e. Bioavailability

6. Digoxin has a half-life of approximately 40 hours of renal function is normal. How long will  it take to reach 90 per cent of the steady state plasma concentration?
a. 2 days
b. 7 days
c. 10 days
d. 14 days
e. 18 days

7. One of the following statements best describes the final presentation in which the drug is
given to the patient
a. It comprises side, adjuncts, excipents that are all non-medicinal agents
b. It determines the action of the effective compound in the patient
c. It determines how appealing the drug would be to the patient
d. It increases the dosage strength of the medication
e. It can determine the adverse effects profile of the medication


8. In determining the bioavailability of an oral medicine, the following pharmaceutical factors are important EXCEPT
a. Particle form
b. Dehydration
c.  Lipid solubility
d. Ionic form
e. Dissolution rate

9. The most appropriate formulation that should be prescribed for a medicinal product that is
inactivated at low pH or causes gastric irritation is ?
a. Effervescent tablets
b. Enteric coated tablets
c. Chewable tablets
d. Film coated tablets
e. Sugar coated tablets

10. One of the Following drugs requires an alcoholic vehicle for action
a. Solutions
b. Suspension
c. Creams
d. Lotions
e. Tintures

11. The Following statements describes the properties of "Generics" EXCEPT
a. This is the common or general name assigned to the drug
b. This is the name describes the molecular structure
c. It may be the mame wscd by the pharmacedtical company
d. Different compaiies can sell the same generic product
e. The same generic product may not possess same excipient

answer : This is the common or general name assigned to the drug

12 Regarding pharmacokinetic gene phenotyes, the following statements are correct EXCEPT
a. Present with  SNP in the VKORC1 gene have reduced warfarin sensitivity
b. Fast acetylators metabolize isoniazed rapidly and thus have low blood drug levels
c. Slow acetylators are prone to having procainamide hydralazine induced lupus like syndrome
d. Poor metabolizer of the CYP2D6 gene do 0ot have effective analgesia 
e.  TPMT*3A homozygoies on azathioprine have profound myelosuppression 

answer: Present with  SNP in the VKORC1 gene have reduced warfarin sensitivity

13 The following factors are importane when considering drug disposition in the pedistrie age group
a. Oral bicavailability is incressed foe scid labile products compared with adults
b. Rate of absorption is slower in young infants due to reduced gastric emptying
c.The skin permeability is increased in children and neonate due to increased ration of Body surace area
d. The rectal absorption in very efficient in children and neonates due to translocation across the rectal mucosa
e. There is reduced bioavailability of drug administcrod via the intramuscular row in neonate due to decreased muscular blood flow

14. A quantal (all-or-none) dose-response curve.......
a. Is useful to cotimate a drug dose that produces 50% of a biological system's maximal response
b. defines the maximal response a biological system can produce
c. Relate the dose of a drug that produces a pre-deined response in a number of individual 
d.  can be converted to graded responses 
e the efficacy of 3 given drug

15. One of these is not a charcteristics of the sympathetic nervous system:
a. Cell bodies for preganglionic neurons orignates in the brain
b The neurotransmitter for preganglionic neurons is acetylcholie
c Long postganlionic neurons 
d Postganglionic nerve teminals with an active uptake process for noradrenalinie known as uplakel
e Nicotinic cholinergic tecepton are present ot the paravericbral ganglia


16 These drugs alter the autonomic nervous system in the following ways except
a Mocamylamine blocks autonomic ganglia and interferes with the transmission of nerve impulses from preganglionic to Postganglionic neurons
b Guanethidine displaces noradrenaline from storage sites
c Cocaine blocks uptake 1 pump thus increasing synaptic concentrations of noradrenaline
d Pyogallol Inhibits catechol-o-methyl transferases(COMT)
e. Propranolol is a selective blocker of the Beta 1 adrenergic receptor

17. Which of the following statements is correct
a. Dihydoxyphenyl alanine (DOPA) decarboxylase is located in the synaptic vesicles
b. Rate-limiting step in synthesis of noradrenaline is the conversion of DOPA to dopamine
c. Dopamine Beta hydroxylase(DBH) is located in the cytoplasm of the cell
d. The final step in the synthesis of noradrenaline is the vesicle
e. None of the above

18. The postganglionic sympathetic nerves at the following organs release noradrenaline as the neurotransmitter except:
a. Sweat glands
b. Adrenal medulla
c. Piloerector muscles
d. skin
e. kidney

19. Which one of the following is a characteristic of the parasympathetic nervous system?
a. Norepinephrine is the neurotransmitter at parasympathetic ganglia
b. Smooth muscle of blood vessels lack parasympathetic innervation
c. Postganglionic neurons are long and myelinated
d. Cell bodies for preganglionic neurons orignates in the lumbar throcic region of the spinal cord
e. parasympathetic neurons innervating the respiratory system mediate bronchodilation

answer: Smooth muscle of blood vessels lack parasympathetic innervation

20 Which one of the following sutsnomic receptoes are |igand-gated jon channels? a
a Nicotinic
b Muscarinic
c alpha l-Adrenergic receptor
d alpha 2-Adrenergic receptor
e beta l-Adrenengic receptor

21. Activation of the parasympathetic nervous system results in which of the following responses?
a. An increased in heart rate
b. vasoconstriction
c. bronchoconstriction
d. Renin secretion
e. Relaxation of the GI tract


22. The sympathetic nervious sysiem is charactérizcd by which une of the folkswing?
a. Ganghia are located close to the organ innervated
b. The neurotransmitter at all Postganglionic neurons sympathetic neuroeffector junctlons is Norepinephrine
c. Postganglionic sympathetic neurons are thoracolumber
d. Cell bodies for preganglionic neurons are thoracolumber
e. No postganglionic sympathetic fibers to the sweat gland

23. Chrnic toaicity tesing measures which of the fllawing.
a. ED50
b. LD50
e. NOARL 1
d. LOAEL
e. Duration of exposure

answer: NOARL 1

24. Histamine receptor 1 (H1) antagonists are best used in the management of
a. Gastric ulcers; where it prevents the release of gasiric acid
b. Tinnitus; where binds to vestibular III receptors to prevent motion sickness
c. allergic reaction; where it competes with the effector cells of the target organ
d. Colon cancers, where it binds to the IgE mediated H1 receptors to cause its effects
e. Schizophrenia, where it mitigates the positive symptoms

25 Which of the following is true conceming nitrie axide?
a. It is synthesized and sored In nitrergic neurones
b. Causes vasoconstricton
c. It is release in response to inflammation
d. It is a classical neurotransmitter
e. Its actions are receptor mediated


26. Nitric oxide
a Causes positive inotropy
b Increases arterial pressure
e Activates cyclo-oxygenase  dec
< At -y d e et of g
(15, Synthasc activetion s calcium depeen) 


27 Central nervous systest (CNS) depressants.
a. Reduce neuronal actions of central and peripheral neurones
b. Enhance GABAergic neurotransmission
c. Include hypnotics and antidepressants
d. Produce tolerance and dependence
e. Are specific in their pharmacologlcal activity

28. Barbituraies
a. Have relatively Large therapeutic indices
b. Enhance binding of GABA to GABA-A and GABA-B receptors
10 stimali = "
e Long-acting barbinates inclu and phenh
answer: d

429 Benzud ' B
e Arc usefil throughou ansesthetic 3
. Are metabolied by the liver W inactiv ]
©  Are preferable clincally 10 the bactwtniics F
o o s
t 1
3 . 3
g
= i i

30. Melatonin
a. Is an antioxidant secreted mostly during the day
b. Interacts with Melatonin 1,2 & 3 receptors 
c. Prolongs onset of sleep
d. Receptors agonist include ramelteon and N-acetyltryptophan 
e. Is efficacious in transient and chronic insonmia

answer: Receptors agonist include ramelteon and N-acetyltryptophan 

31 Ethanol
a. Weakly crosses the blood brain barrier
b. Potentiates GABA and glycine neurotransmission
« Does not affect dopaminergic brain reward sysem
a Activates NMDA recepton causing cognitive impainent
e Produces reversible fostal alcobol syndrome

32 Agonuta of serotomin are usciil in the management of 4
. Depression
a Prptic ucer discase
e Inflammation
K32 Seronin
a Tssynthesiced on demand and stored 1) serotonefgic aruunes
b Precunor for its synthesis of noradrenaline is the vesicle

33. Serotonin
a. Is synthesized on demand and stored in serotonergic neurones
e Causes vasocosatricton is conjunction with nitric oxide
. Bensodiazepines .
n L‘M%mﬂﬁnmm
©  Devreass onset amd duration of sleep
o Include dianepam and baclofien
© Shont acting benrodiasepines used for insommin are more prone o producing ikl
symploms T

35 one of the following antidepressants Inhibits e membrane punp in s responsible |
a. Amitriptyline
b. Selegelline
c. Muoclobemide
d. Trazodone
e. Lithium 


1\ "
) L r
il v L
h e L.
(a camscanner
36, A patient who hat boen on selegilline presented willl hypértension, selzuros, ta c
I8 the most likely cawse of this presentation?
b Patient had increassd the dose of his drnigs without prescription
e. Patient had just mopped drinking alcohol especially red wines
A Patient had just hem dagnosad with hyperiensive ewephalopathy
e Patient is an exiensive metabolizer who ook an extra dose of the drug

37. One of the following statments is consistent with the use of Lithiun EXCEPT
a. Diuretic use can reduce the clearance and precipitate toxicity
b. It is widely distributed in the CNS but it is dialyzable
c. Frank touicity o soen when the blood level is grester than 2mmol/L
d. It produces euphoria ot therapeatic concontrations
e. Its use can be associated with poos esolition of manie episodes
answer:  It produces euphoria ot therapeatic concontrations

38 A elderly man with Farkinson disease s beimg treated with LDOPAS carbidopa. The
beneficial effect of carbadopa may he aftriwted to which of the following actiom?
a lis conversion s 1 -DOTA
b lta converson o .kﬁul‘
o (nhibition of COMT
e Inhibition of MAGH
39 An K2 year-old wornss with Park imon s has boen taling LDOPA/varbidops for 7
years Slhe hay rcently metiied that wme shaonmal choresform-like moverments hive
developed in het s end legs These novements are 8 Dpical sxample of which of the:
following "
a L-DOPA.induced psychosis 1
e (s On-oll” effects s-l AMOPA
d (i Toxleity of [ -DOFA.
© (r) Wearing-of™ cffects of L-DOPA

40 A 68year ol womn with shanced Pakinsd discass siting a8 the bus stop 18 msbie o
1 i from the bench. Her young ..wpmmmhn-l-mm-zhm_ w4 divg
ot wtiataronis [y hat ersbils the waman o ged i Wisieh of the Fllowing is i most likely 1
g e in this paticnr”
3 Aot
[ Tr—
4 Ropinieis.
£ Scirgilime.
41 Drugs of choice 1 the abostive mansgement Nf migraine
a Parscctamol
i* o
c [m—
' b NSAIDS
| ﬂ‘ {
. Engotalkaloids :
42 Prophylactic therapy in migraine involve the fullowing except
2 Propranolol
b. Na valproate I
© Amitripiyline )
o st
¥ 43 The following drugs arc effective in partial selaires with or without secondary penera
tonic clonic seizures except
a, Carbamazepine
b Valproate -
c Topiramate
d Llanml\n:
#43. The fallowing are recognizod adverse offects apsociated with phenytoin 4
therapy except -
A Auxia
b Dysanhria -
< Acec .
B Myperkalaemia -
e Macrocytic anaemia iy
Has ot et we soocstol Wi bamsepis heapy cxept
b Sedation 9 ]
e Dizzitess
4 Diplopia
e Hyponatraemis -
46 Which miiconvulsant has the hughest rish of conjenial mal formion
l:;i-m N S
e Lamotrigune ﬂ- ’
47, The following staterents hee descripti .-u,. 1 sction of beta b
T o s ot -
b They decremse sympathetic oute whene | !
L T MY
R - 4 T
i e
i 1 ‘
» e
cs [om—
W )
d Hmmmwm#w .
48 One of The following medications have been demorstrated to have a direct pees
only rather than combined effect 10 also Induce resistance 10 hypertension Dageiid
reduce efficacy of other medications
a Aleohol
b Licerice -
e Nasal decongestants
a Nonsteroidal anti-inflamatory drogs :
e Corticosteruids b
49 1n the management of hyperiensive erseryencien, one of the following drugs mts by causing ’
peripheral arieriolar dilation and rstunicsls ‘I
a Esmolol
b, Fenoldopem
e Sodium nitroprusside
d Hydralazine
e Labetalol
0. The following adverse effect have been associsted with HMG-CoA reductape inhibitors
exiept i
Hepatotonicity
.\ l.-al-si::-lnu .=
4 Myopathy =y
© Rabdomyolysis .
kg ﬁ.fmumhmu_hmﬁmmam ame
b. Niscin q
a Omoga 1 sl
4, P werol i
e Eatimibe

52 Cn of these dniegs should NOT be prescribed 10 puients with severe hypertriglyveride
: Simvastatin -4-
c temimbe’  Reead U .
4 Cotestipol ‘ ¥ e
«  Niacin » =
- A 1
<

53. This drug should be avoided in patient who have had a myo
= SR T —
F. This drug should be avoided in paticats who fave had 3 myocardial infarction
._m \J Y, ub = -, X
4 Quinidine
e Lidocuine 1.

1 -
4. The following are associated with bronchoconstriction except )
a Norepinephrine.

b. Acetylcholine
© Sobstance I
d Neurokinin A
a Neuropeptide Y i
53, In the step-wise escalation of diug eatssient in Bronchial asthma, wep | involves ~.4
o Short-acting inhaled [ agonist
b, Inhaled conicostercids
© Long-acting P-agonist =
4 Leukotnene pathway modifiers
a Ol predaisolone a5
4. The following sloul be mimanistered to an otherwise healthy 27-year old male "
severe mthima except =
a Omygen
B Nebulisod raltnsmol v
e Nedulised \praTopn bromude .y
o4 Mﬁﬁ c
.
7. nbaled sindisa cromoglicate
L b effeetive in allevisting mn scute epinnke of allergic sstbma -
b Has b benefit in peeventing exercise-induced hyonchospasm
a
S L S '
e Causes candinic dywhythaiss by prokinging the QTc
SR AN these medicines have ytoprosective PropeTties excop i
a Collaklal bismuh i .
a Onseprarole - I
© Cardenczolone
o ﬁmﬁn j jr
B R o o b P o
A
3 -
[ p X .
[cs|o—
B r
e
59 Vutcat e n e 1 e olloing e
" MEM -
e Wood tamiusws
| 4. Somatostau: 3
A Propranolol =!
60 Proton pump iokibitors § PPIs) set by - l
. lahibiting Na™/K'/ATPase enryme | |
c Inhibiting H'K'/ATPase entyme =
e DNA pyrase esryme
4 Beta-lactamane ensyme
®  Cyclo-axypmase enayme
61 Which of the following adverse effest is associated with | o
A Uasroiststoal i »
b, Gynaccomasta 1 ‘
e Law spemi count #
a Galawrmive i women |
* Plood dyscrasas '
62 The fallowing e be wcd in dirors roatiment exvept 3
o Diphesoxylate b : < Ll
b Loperamide b
e Oral pelyydrasion sals i
a Ocirotide I L
63, A major skde effret of methowesiar wesmont 9ol eSS I S el AR
a Leflunomide s a
b Predniswne a
a Slfasalasine o
4 I
[ d ’ B
4 Which ot Wi 2 i boe R et of gouty un
a Predaisolone
X Dilafensc Na -
© Hydroxychlomquine o
B 4 ’ ’
S |
SR -] | e g
- 4
[cs|o—
d Methotrexste e
e Allopurinel - -
L 4
65 The following statement ks true of the oMds ia the i s
conditions encept bt @',_“' eyt
7 uibits the synthesis of lipocoriin |
b Broad anti-inflammatory effect
e Supprens disenses progression -
o, Given priot 10 DMARD therapy .-
e Onsetof action is besa than 24 houny 1!
6 Which of the following statcment i true of Disease Modifying Anti-Rheumatic dngs
DMARD) T
u They are analgosics
b Have 8 quick onset of action -
a Used only as monctherapies
d Mukummwﬁ'liir,["mm
07, On Caet vaccines ol
5 Only at experimentsl plse -~
7 Can be experimental, prophylactic and iherapeticn |
© Only prophylass #
4 Notyet avallabie - N
e Allof the above "
#8 (i anti-cancer tesponse of propiylacis vacsine -
a The T-cells are de-activated a
B rul-pdmnmﬁ-m _
a There is lower level of sntibodies P
a Nooe of the above b
wm%-nﬂﬁ b
b Lant sbout $0% of the otal fime - 4
e. Chasges takes place outsbde the cell =
4 Also known aa mitosis phase i
c None of the shove
70, On alkylating ageos for cancer. T
y
| .
[c|o—
a Conslst of ealy Nitrogen mustands and alkyl sulfonate i
b A does sot affect RNA und protein
d. All of the above
e. None of the above
1. On oieation of alkylating agents
2 Very safe
b. Causes i) sterility
d. Only Alopecin
e All of the above
72 On antimetablites for cancer
b, Non Purine analogies
e Nan folic acid anslogecs
d. Non Pyrimidines analogucs
e All of the above
73, On snti-microtubule agents 1
3 F.umilu are Purine and Cyclophosphamides |
c  They act on G, phase B
d. They are no longer used 1
e All of the above
v 'd
74, On Topolomerase inhibitors for cancer (reatmont
They act mainly on RNA synihicsis without affecting DNA ]
c They cannot cause myelosuppression P,
4 None of the above
© Al of the above 3
75 This drug has the ability 10 conmalize insuili like growth factor =1 levely in 97%
Srlllllrﬁit‘ E!rﬂlln b
b. Octreotide - 4
a Bromocriptine Y
d. Dopamipe
{
r o
S . .[
CamScanner
4 76 Reganding use of Anithy1oxd s ~which would b bestsited for se i
2 Carbimazole i
b Radioactive iodine
a e '
c Levothyroxine . -
77. Gonadorelin is a endogenous ligand secreted by the hypothalamus that also “;;' 1
the following "
a Astagonizes renin actinvity
b Acts as an adrenal steroid
< Itis an analogue of CRH 1
. inhibits the lactotrophs E
# Cootrols FSH and LH secretion
78 Onz of the following glucoricocoid ts useful when there is 3 requirement for promsis
glucorticoid effects and mild mineraloconticoid activity N ol
A Dexamethasone
b Fludrocortione
©  Hydrocortisone r
a Methylprednisolon
e Predaisolane
79, Which of the following sathelminthic dru is correctly paired with its clinic ‘ plica
a Niclosamide/Trichuriasis
b, Ivermectin/Schistosomiasis
c PraziquantelOnchocerciasts
4 Gastogrifin/Echinococcosts 4
A Dicthylcarbamarine Filariasis |
L)
*m The following features can be observed with the use of basal insulin
a Can be admimistered via the SC, [V or IM route
b. It is inactivated in the kidney and excreted in feces.
l‘ Insalin glargine does not have a peak, last for 20-24 hous
e. Canbe used with alongside soluble insulin
81 One of the following statement regarding Incretiiyanalogues is coreet
b They enhance insulin secretion with or withodt rise In glucose |
e They cause increased in heart rate
b. vasoconstriction
c. bronchoconstriction
d. Renin secretion
e. Relaxation of the GI tract deposition of pligues in blood ve
a
i
—
) >
[csJm—
I

o Thiey e s empt Pt

a They are functional snalogues of alpha ;

. 1

ﬁ..m 1 Antiicrobial therapy B < i

: ‘. Selection of sn satimicrobial is based on microscopy/eultur
b, Utilizes Nasrow-spectium antibiotics RS |
e. Utilizes exteoded-spectrum aniibiotics
i Utlizes brosdspectrum anibiois. - e
e. Not an initial therapeutic approuch

A3 Which are truc of macrolides except ) i
o Bind reversibly 1o the bacterial 505 ribosomal subunit
b, Have Bacteriostatic activity Y
c Have Bacteriocidal activity
W Cause prolongation of the QT iaterval !

B4, Which of the following i associated with * Red man syndrome™ :
A Daptomycin "
b Pﬂlﬁim‘nll
o Cycloserine ] |:
< Bacimein 58

85, The foltowiag are frue of meropenem except 8
A Has setlvity against gram positive and negative bacteria
b Penetrates the blood-brain barrier .8
© Renintant 1o beia-lactamases c
A Inactivated by renal dihydropeptidases :

e Has activity agalnst anaerobes '

6, Monobactums are 3 L
2 Suseptible to f-lactamases 1 |
b Active against Gram-positive bacteria .
£ Active sgainst Gram-negative rods I .

d Have a broad spectrim activity )
e Active against anacrobes o 4
i _ ] .
R et A
b Hind imeversibly to the 305 1 subuit
c b 4
CamScanner
e Agomwof choice in Rickertsalinfectioms
2 produces flaceid paralysis of the parasite
b is ot oally active .
a s well excreted in the urine
d s adrug of choice for treating ascariasis
e produces the Mazzotti-type eaction as s side effiect -
. imhibits oxidative phosphorylation in sme specics of helminibes
b increases cell membrase permesbility for calcium, resulting in paralysis, dislodges
and death of helminthes
< bnbibits microtubule synthesls ia helminthes and kmeversibly fmpairs gliose up
a blocks ACh transmission af the impulses from preganglionic to Postganglionic neurons myoncural junction and causes paralysts of be
« Inhibits glutamate gated I channel found only in invertebrates

90. Concerning amoebiasis:
a. It is an infestation caused by the pathogenic protozoan parasite, Entamoeba dispae
b. Mode of transamissbon from person to person i5 by sexual contact only
c. The clinical features include constipation, dysentery and blooly stools
d. Drug of choice for treatment is debrydroemetine
e. None of the above is correct

91. Which drug should be avoided in a 25-year-old man with HIV infection and a glomerular filtration rate of only 20 mL/min?
a Tenofovir
b Abacavir
c Ritonavir
d Efavirens
e Raltrgravir

92 Which of the following Protease Inhibitor does not need to be administered with a boosting agent?
a. Saquinavir
b. Ritonavir
c. Lopinavir
d. Indinavir
e. Nelfinavir


93, Which one of the following antiretrovirals is associated with lipoatrophy and peripheral neuropathy

a. Stabudine
b. Lamivudine
c. Tenofovir
d. Emiricitabine 
e. Didanosine


94. Which of the following drugs is indicated for the treatment of cither HIV or hepatitis B7
o Zidovudine =
b Abacavic
e. Dolutigravir |
e Tenofovir |
e Nevirapine
93 Which one of the following is 50t a component of first lme HAART
2 Tesofovir
b, Zadovudine
o Indinavie
4 Nevirpine o
e Lamividine

94. Which of the following drugs is indicated for the treatment of either HIV or hepatitis B?
a. Zidovudine
b. Abacavir 
c. Dolutigravir 
d. Tenofovir
e. Nevirapine

95. Which one of the following is not a component of first line HAART 
a. Tenofovir
b. Zidovudine
c. Indinavir 
d. Nevirapine
e. Lamivudine

96. Sofosbuvir useful in Hepatitis C viral infection by
a. lnhibiting NSSB RNA dependent RNA polymerase
b. inhibit the viral NSEA phosphoprotein necded for HEV RNA replication =
c. It inhibit the NS5A/A5 protease needed for viral replication
d. it prevents viral maturations.
e. It prevents fusion of the vinis to the cufls -

97. Antifungal agents useful for systemic infection
a. Griseofulvin
b. Clotrimazole
c. Naftifine
d. Fluconazole
e. Amphotericin D

98. Amphotericin B 
a. has a narrow spectrum of activity
b. is synergistic in combination with kesoconazole: .
c. interacts with the chalesternl of fungf cell walls esusing leaking in cell constitents 
d. crosses the blood brain barrier
e. Is associated with renal impairment

99. A drug has a desirable concentration range of 150-250ug/l. I mean volume of distribution is 072L/Kg. What bolus intravenous dose should be adminstered to a patient weighing 6Skg? (answer in units of mg) :
a. 7.4 mg
b. 8.4 mg
c. 9.4 mg
d. 10.4 mg 
e. 1l.4 mg 

100 An initial conc of 12.5 ng/ml arises following the bolus intravenous administration of 200
ug of a drug. Calculate the Vd of this drug in this patient in units of Liter.
a. 14 L 
b. 15 L 
c. 16 L
d. 17 L 
e. 18 L